# ADR 001 – Separation of concerns with the hexagonal architecture

## Status
Accepted

## Context

The application must be easy to maintain and extend. In particular, it must be able to evolve from a monolithic architecture into microservice-based and event-based. Moreover, testing must be facilitated and it must be easily connected to outside interfaces such as a database, external APIs, etc., without having to modify the core business logic. The different layers must be clearly separated and coupling must be reduced as much as possible. Both the hexagonal and MVC (Model-View-Controller) were considered for this purpose.

## Decision

The hexagonal architecture has been chosen as the basis for the architecture of the application.

It consists of the following elements:
- Ports : Interfaces to connect the application with external sources, such as the interface layer, a database or an API.
- Adapters : Concrete implementation of a port that allows communication between the business logic and external sources without coupling the two together.

## Consequences

The architectural choice will facilitate maintainability of the application as well as the transition to a microservice-based and event-driven platform. Moreover, it will reduce coupling between the different layers and simplify the addition of new functionalities and tests without having to modify the existing code.
The MVC architecture has been rejected because, even though it would simplify the initial phase implementation of the platform, its tighter coupling between the user interface and the application layer would reduce maintainability and complexify future developments.